# Analysis-of-the-Dataset-s-Electrical-Grid-Stability-Simulated
Electrical Grid Stability Simulated Data Set contains 10000 rows and 14 columns. Tthe 1st four columns represents the value of electricity producer.4th, 5th and 6th columns represents the consumption of nominal power. Then the next four columns represents the coefficient (gamma) proportional to price elasticity. The 13th column represents the maximal real part of the characteristic equation root and the lat column represents the stability label of the system. This dataset contains information electrical grid stability and whether the system is stable or not. It's a classification problem where the goal is to predict the stability of the electrical grid.

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) is an important first step in any data analysis to understand the distribution, range and any anomalies in the data. We use pandas and seaborn libraries in Python to explore the data. In EDA, we analyze the data by plotting charts, graphs, and tables to reveal insights and patterns. With This dataset, we perform EDA by checking for missing values, analyzing the distribution of categorical and numerical variables, understanding the stability of different grid system, and visualizing the correlation between variables.

Data preprocessing is the process of cleaning and transforming the raw data into a format that machine learning models can understand. We use different techniques to preprocess the This Electrical Grid Stability dataset. As there is no missing value,we do not need to handle missing values. But some other preprocessing steps which we used in this dataset are - converting categorical variables into numerical variables, converting data type,normalizing the data,label encoding and splitting the dataset into training and test sets.

After preprocessing, we apply various classification algorithms to build ML models, such as logistic regression,svc and decision trees. Then we fine-tune the model parameters and use cross-validation for performance evaluation.We also apply classifier algorithm to build ML models. As this is a classification problem the classification algorithm's performance is more better than regressor algorithm.
Dataset by https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/471/electrical+grid+stability+simulated+data
